= Google App Engine Boilerplate

Google App Engine Boilerplate gets your project off the ground quickly using the Google App Engine platform. It introduces new developers to App Engine and advanced developers to best practices.

{Try it online}[http://appengine.beecoss.com]

=== What's a Boilerplate?
A Boilerplate is used to describe sections of code that can be reused over and over in new contexts or applications which provides good default values, reducing the need to specify program details in every project. ({wikipedia}[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boilerplate_code])

=== What makes this Boilerplate Amazing?
It is fully featured, actively maintained, and uses the latest technologies supported by Google App Engine.

New to Google App Engine? Learn about it by watching {this video}[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bfgO-LXGpTM] or reading {this website}[https://developers.google.com/appengine/].

== Get started in 6 easy steps
1. Download the last version of the {App Engine SDK}[http://code.google.com/appengine/downloads.html#Google_App_Engine_SDK_for_Python] for Linux, Mac OS or Windows (Tested with SDK version 1.6.6).
1. Download the code of this Boilerplate ({here}[https://github.com/coto/gae-boilerplate/zipball/master])
1. Run locally ({instructions}[https://developers.google.com/appengine/docs/python/tools/devserver]).
1. Set your 'application' name in {app.yaml}[https://github.com/coto/gae-boilerplate/blob/master/app.yaml]
1. Set parameters in {config.py}[https://github.com/coto/gae-boilerplate/blob/master/config.py].  (secret key, {recaptcha code}[http://www.google.com/recaptcha/whyrecaptcha], salt etc.)
1. Deploy it online ({instructions}[https://developers.google.com/appengine/docs/python/gettingstarted/uploading] - recommended setup: python 2.7, high replication datastore)


== Functions and features:
- Authentication (Login, Logout, Sign Up)
- Reset Password
- Update User Profile
- Automatic detection of user language
- Support for 5 Languages (English, Spanish, Italian, Chinese and Indonesian)
- Visitors Log
- Notifications and Confirmation for users when they change their email or password
- Contact Form
- Responsive Design for viewing on PCs, tablets, and mobile phones (synchronized with Twitter-Bootstrap project)
- Mobile identification
- Unit testing
- Client side and server side form validation
- Error handling

== Open Source
If you want to add, fix or improve something, create an {issue}[https://github.com/coto/gae-boilerplate/issues] or a {Pull Request}[https://github.com/coto/gae-boilerplate/pull/new/master].
Before committing fixes we recommend running the unitests by running {testrunner}[https://github.com/coto/gae-boilerplate/blob/master/testrunner.py] 
or in Eclipse by right clicking on the web folder and selecting run as... Python unit-test.  This will help guard against changes that accidently break other code.
Please add or modify the {unittests}[https://github.com/coto/gae-boilerplate/tree/master/web/tests] as necessary.
To run unittests it may be necessary to install {webtest}[http://webtest.pythonpaste.org/en/latest/index.html#installation] and {pyquery}[http://packages.python.org/pyquery/] in your local python installation.


Feel free to commit improvements or new features. Feedback, comments and ideas are welcome.


== See the Boilerplate online (a live demo)
http://appengine.beecoss.com


== Technologies used
* Python 2.7
* {NDB 1.0.1}[http://developers.google.com/appengine/docs/python/ndb/] (A new datastore API for the Google App Engine Python runtime).
* {Jinja2 2.6}[http://jinja.pocoo.org/docs/] (A fully featured template engine for Python).
* {WTForms-1.0.1}[http://wtforms.simplecodes.com/] (Forms validation framework keeping user interaction secure and flexible with or without javascript).
* {webapp2 2.5.1}[http://webapp-improved.appspot.com/] (A lightweight Python web framework compatible with Google App Engine).
* {Babel-0.9.6}[http://babel.edgewall.org/] and {gaepytz-2011h}[http://code.google.com/p/gae-pytz/] (Industy standard internationalization renders the site in multiple languages).
  * webapp2_extras.sessions
  * webapp2_extras.routes
  * webapp2_extras.auth
  * webapp2_extras.i18n
* Code written following the {Google Python Style Guide}[http://google-styleguide.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/pyguide.html]
* Unit testing with {unittest}[http://docs.python.org/library/unittest.html], {webtest}[http://webtest.pythonpaste.org/en/latest/index.html], {pyquery}[http://packages.python.org/pyquery/]

== Front-end Technologies
* {HTML5Boilerplate}[http://html5boilerplate.com/]
* {Modernizr 2.5.3}[http://modernizr.com]
* {jQuery 1.7.2}[http://jquery.com]
* {Twitter Bootstrap 2.0.4}[http://twitter.github.com/bootstrap/] Template for Desktop Version.

== Please help us translate and add new languages!
In each locale/<locale code>/LC_MESSAGES directory there is a file messages.po. Please help us translate the text in these files.
msgid is the text in English.  msgstr is the translation to the language indicated by the locale code.  For example:

<tt>msgid "Change your password"</tt>
<tt>msgstr "Cambiar tu contraseña"</tt>

== Working with Internationalization (i18n)
This boilerplate comes bundled with babel, pytz, and automatic language detection which together provide powerful internationalization capability.
Text to be translated needs to be indicated in code and then translated by users like you after which it is compiled for speed.

Adding or updating text to be translated or adding new languages requires more work as indicated in the steps below:
1. Text to be translated should be enclosed in _("text to translate") in *.py files.  In html templates translated text is indicated by:
   1. <tt>{% trans %}text to translate{% endtrans %}</tt>
   1. <tt>{{..._("text to translate")...}}</tt>
   1. <tt>{%..._("text to translate")...%}</tt>
   Translations can be added to other types of files too.  See {babel.cfg}[https://github.com/coto/gae-boilerplate/blob/master/locale/babel.cfg]
   and {babel.cfg documentation}[http://babel.edgewall.org/wiki/Documentation/0.9/messages.html]
1. Obtain pybabel to perform the steps below.  You will need to install and compile {jinja2}[http://jinja.pocoo.org/docs/] and {babel}[http://babel.edgewall.org/wiki/Download].
   Note that you may need to first install {setuptools and easy_install}[http://pypi.python.org/pypi/setuptools].
   pybabel.exe can be run from the Scripts directory in your python installation.
   * easy_install jinja2 babel
1. Babel then needs to find all translationed text blocks throughout code and templates.
   After installing pybabl run this command to extract messages (assuming ./ is the location of this boilerplate):
   <tt>pybabel extract -F ./locale/babel.cfg -o ./locale/messages.pot ./ --sort-output --no-location --omit-header</tt>
1. Update translations of existing languages or add new languages
   1. Update translations of existing languages by running this command for each locale:
      <tt>pybabel update -l es_ES -d ./locale -i ./locale/messages.pot --previous --ignore-obsolete</tt>
      Run this command for each locale by replacing es_ES in the command.  Locale names are the directory names in ./locale.
   1. Add new languages
      Run this command for each new language to add.  You will need to replace es_ES in the command with the locale code to add.
      pybabel init -l es_ES -d ./locale -i ./locale\messages.pot
      Add the locale to the locales array in {config.py}[https://github.com/coto/gae-boilerplate/blob/master/config.py].  Instructions on how to pick a locale code are provided in the comments above the array.
1. Provide translations for each language
   In each locale/<locale code>/LC_MESSAGES directory there is a file messages.po.  Users translate the strings in these files.
   msgid is the text in English.  msgstr is the translation to the language indicated by the locale code.  For example:
   
   * <tt>msgid "Change your password"</tt>
   * <tt>msgstr "Cambiar tu contraseña"</tt>
1. Compile translations
   Run: <tt>pybabel compile -f -d ./locale</tt>

See {webapp2's tutorial}[http://webapp-improved.appspot.com/tutorials/i18n.html] and {pybabel's docs}[http://babel.edgewall.org/wiki/Documentation/cmdline.html] for more details.

== Security
===SSL
* SSL is enabled site wide by adding <tt>secure: always</tt> to the section: <tt>- url: /.*</tt> in app.yaml (remove this line to disable)
* SSL either requires a free google app engine *.appspot.com domain or a {custom domain and certificate}[https://developers.google.com/appengine/docs/ssl]
* Alternatively SSL can be enabled at a controller level via webapp2 schemes.  Use the secure_scheme provided in routes.py
* It is recommended to enable ssl site wide to help prevent {session hijacking}[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Session_hijacking]
===Passwords
* passwords encrypted with SHA512

== Acknowledgements
Google App Engine Boilerplate is a collaborative project which is bringing to you thanks to the help of
these {amazing people}[https://github.com/coto/gae-boilerplate/graphs/contributors]

Special thanks to:
* {Peta15}[https://github.com/peta15]
* {Pmanacas}[https://github.com/pmanacas]
